Hey, I'm Alan and I'm Brent and we're here for episode seven seven seven of a B testing Wow seven episodes
Congratulations, Brent. Whoo-hoo. That's a prime number, right? Seven is prime. You're very good at math. Yes
I've been re-listening to our last podcast and and rethinking about the NFR discussion and and
Recognize that seven was the the number you felt was the right one for no, I was just making up numbers. All right, burn up
All right, so we are gonna do something crazy today wacky wacky totally wacky. We're gonna start right off with the
Nice you're improving on I
You know, I spend most of my drive to work with the windows down just practicing that line
Yeah, you clear your throat. Me. Me. Me. Well, my daughter gave me a
Microphone
It's not a it's like her little kids what mostly plays princess songs, but I sing into it in the car
Yeah, I try not to get laughed at her or pulled over. Do you have the frozen memorized now? No, do you want to build? No
My we're in a no frozen zone my my son
Nfz a no frozen zone my son last week
Drop my wife on the floor because he started doing a lip sync dance to do you want to build a snowman?
But that was funny cuz he did it sarcastically
Yeah, sure. This is and next week more fun from the Jensen household
all right, so
Mailbag item Alan. I actually had a lunch yesterday with with a
Colleague of ours Ben. Oh, yeah, and he had to cancel on Ben this week. I had the
Tangent I got food poisoning over the weekend. So I was wiped out on Monday. We're supposed to have lunch on Monday
Did you guys go to sushi?
No. Oh, yes, actually we did we got yeah better. I usually go to sushi too. So so Alan is a
Wacky mold of vegetarian. So just curious. How do you get food poisoning from carrots?
well, you go to a certain local establishment, I won't name and you
Get a garden burger at onion rings and take your chances. We okay. Anyway moving on
Um, so he and I had lunch and one of the things he wanted to start with
was
He said hey, I just want you to know that I am getting comments
From all over. I don't know what that means. Maybe he hangs out with the same three listeners. We've identified or your kid or my son
Yes, and he said
Ever since you and I have started putting on the the podcast
There's been a great deal of people coming to him influenced
positively by that
in
particular leads
That leads are finding value in what we're doing because it's helping them
Lead their people through change. Well, we did because we kind of talked a lot about leading through change
There's there's one thing I wanted to carry on with that further today because we
Were that topic is not done and as you know
organizationally corporate wide we are nowhere close to done with this change and and and
There are a lot of people still working through that change management
Agreed. Yes. All right. Where are you going? Um
So one of the things I wanted to spend a little bit of time on is
Is trying to help those leads so so Ben and I chatted and I said what value are they getting exactly from us?
and that is
what they're getting is
the message to to their people that helps them to
Move forward
Right right now one of the things that are happening is a lot of this data isn't being pushed down to the leads
That data are I think data datum
So I wanted to start off with a
quote
I'm knocking the microphone. Sorry for that. I want to start off with a quote that I that I
Recently encountered. Okay, it's a little bit longish, but I'd love to see what your thoughts are for score and
I'm not different different quote. All right, go ahead 12 day
in
practice all
Systems do insist on exercising their own creativity
They never accept imposed solutions
Predetermined designs or well articulated plans that have been generated somewhere else
too often
we interpret their refusal to change as
Resistance we say that people innately resist change
But the resistance we experience from others is not to change itself
It is to the particular process of change that believes in imposition
Rather than creation it is the resistance of a living system to be treated as a non-living thing
It is an an assertion of the system's right to create
It is life insisting on its primary responsibility
to create itself
That's that's the quote what that essentially means and where is that from it is from a book called a simpler way
What's your thoughts?
My thoughts I was gonna ask you to put it a simpler way, but it makes it makes sense. Sure. Sure it it reflects it
It's something what's the attitude? I'm looking for it reminds me a little bit of
some of the things that sing a talks about in the fifth discipline about the learning organization and how and
It all makes sense to me, but I'm trying to figure out where you're going with this
So what the way I capture this quote in any simpler way is essentially
people are thinking change is the problem and the problem is
When the change occurs you have people feeling
trapped
That's the problem is that they feel trapped. They don't understand how
They're going to provide value in this new world
But Alan wants is that a communication issue, you know, absolutely it is
Absolutely it is and that's the point what it was the point that that I would want to get across on this one is
That the best way leads can really help their folks is to say
your
Sense of entrapment is in your head and help them to move through that as fast as
Possible. There are more changes coming
Right as Alan and I have hinted to this and they you know
several podcasts one of the changes
My team is undergoing this. There is another major
Division undergoing this change and
I'll be a bit hyperbolic stick at the end of this change. I
Firmly believe the following things will occur. Okay. Number one world piece test
Will be gone
Number two. Oh, no. No, wait, not the test is dead speech. No. Yeah, we'll go back to that later
All right. Go ahead. Yeah. No, I actually so one of my
more popular
Block posts was there's no hope in test and I'm actually very tempted to write
You know what at this point in time? There is no hope for test now
Let's let's pause there a moment because I think that
There are a lot of wrong ways to interpret that statement
and I think we talk about the test activity versus the role, but what comes down to is
the the need for a
Separate team to throw stuff over the wall to is getting in the way of
Creativity and quick software development. It doesn't mean and the the point I want to get to is think what a lot of teams move
This direction they freak out because they think that oh my gosh now everybody has to do everything
And that is if you think that you will indeed fail. Yeah, absolutely horrible
It's everybody doesn't do everything you still have generalizing specialists
Who and you have a team that you jigsaw together you guys can't see it, but I roll my eyes every time he says that
Because you prefer I would say specializing generalists. Yeah, it doesn't matter we we need it's just really what we need
Really what we need is we need teams that
Understand that and build towards the value of diverse strengths. Yes
Let's just say that let's we need a diverse team
Every if you try and build a team where everybody does everything well everyone will write code and then they'll test it then they'll deploy
It and they'll test it in production. They'll analyze the data. Everyone does that that is BS total BS
You need people to do all those things some people can do all of them
It would probably isn't in their best interest to try and do all of them because then they're in the multi-tasking
Makes you stupid camp if you leverage your strengths and maybe you know
Someone's really good at all of that stuff, which means great. They can fill in anywhere
But I believe and we've talked about our you know our team principles before you your
Best shot at building a great team is to have
Have a team where people can everyone on the team can you know play to their passions?
Absolutely, and then you know, I also firmly believe and there's
Again, I refer back to the l'angione book on I'm tying
Organizational health to product quality that if you build a great team, you're gonna make great software
Yes, let me let me continue on with you can try. Yes. I know I will try
Alright, the other thing and again, I'm being hyper or hyper ballistic on on purpose
But I also believe the PM role is gone
The PM's will shift into more of a role of product planning, which is much more along the lines of planning out the future
not necessarily
Managing the present so their their role will be much more around exploring world opportunities
Coming up with innovative ideas that can be tested
What's your timeline for this this sort of move?
this is gonna happen the
The beginnings of this will absolutely happen in our company in the next quarter. I
Can see that I know that we have I could probably
About labeling anyone. I know there's some flattening and some some combining going on some teams of Microsoft and some reduction in the number of
PM's on those teams. So and
For the record, I love it
next
leads
Will be gone
Also, I also have seen examples of that
So and the teams I've talked to like engineering director some engineering managers each of those with you know, 12 to 16 directs
right
again like it
You will also like the next two. All right the functional. It's so sorry. I just need a moment
Deep breath Brent's getting me a little a little excited here. All right, go on
next
The functional model will be gone
Doesn't it go away I talked more about that because I thought that's the functional model
I don't know if this translates worldwide
with within the
Corporation one of those Microsoft we have we not only have separated
sort of activities into
distinct human roles
But we also have constructed an entire management chain around it
So we have director of tests we have director of development. We have director of PM
And what what that ends up doing is it it sort of maximizes the number of people who have to say yes before the product can
ship that model is gone
Hallelujah and
I know you will mourn this last one but actually pause there because I don't get how that's different from
what we've talked about above when we start flattening orgs and
Eliminate disciplines what why is it something separate at the functional? It's not different. It's
It's a different way of looking at the same thing. Okay, so some people are gonna view this as oh my gosh test is gone
How can you say that? Well another consequence is that no so the whole
Separation of disciplines is gone
Let me let me pause for the last yeah because that flattening is gonna scare people to from from two sides
Before you go all right because Brinson charge yes
Command and control
Will be gone. Yeah, and you've already mentioned it and what will happen. These are all the same thing
This is not five step things like it's not it's one little tweak BAM. They're gone
It's essentially one little tweak BAM. They're gone except for all the culture the we have like legacy culture the cultural ramifications
and when I mean the command and control will be gone is
We will have such a high span of control that
People who who used to thrive and believe that they could micromanage anything
That they those folks will not scale now that is an important change because the the leaders in charge
They're going to have to figure out how to train
how to train individuals to lead themselves and
From my experience having gone through this a couple of times
That is going to be a big loss to a lot of ICs
So Brent just gave me I was about to interrupt he'd be like the finger like no
Not done yet. I'm almost done. Are you done now? You may go so now I forgot my point damn it
I like all this and I think there's a lot of reasons people to freak out but for
Anyone worth their salt no worries because the things I like about this are is
You know Peter Drucker 20 years ago said, you know knowledge workers like we are today can't be managed micromanage
Can't be told what to do all the time
We need to have that creativity to figure out what to do. That's all absolutely true in the way we work
when you have a flatter org structure you have
Couple couple things come out of that one are it's a couple fears rise out of that one is the managers going
Well, there's two manager fears two types of managers that have fears there
The first manager is the one who's in charge of the team of 16, which may go
Oh, I don't know how to manage just many people
How do I get 16 one-on-ones on my calendar every week and the answer is you don't?
And thing is you don't manage your team. You coach them you mentor them
You guide them you give you you track you keep track of what they're doing, but you don't
Manage them you are a lot closer to give them the framework
They need to work in you make sure that you over communicate your total clarity on what you expect them to do
and then you get out of their way and then
Let them self organize to figure out they can figure out what to do that ties into the other lead
I'm gonna come back to in a second then the IC is like well
Now I can never be a lead because it's so I can either be an IC or I can be this engineering manager nothing in between
It's like well, you know dub dub dub, but the difference is is that I'm not certain how to translate dubba dubba dub
Dubba dubba dubba is oh, I think it's this it's I'll show Brent in sign language
Yeah, right now Alan is saying bring your number one
Yes, yes, indeed so
The role of the lead at Microsoft today is sort of a technical lead role plus a lot of meetings
kind of an ineffective use of a lead in many cases when you have a team of
You know, you have like 16 people 15 people
You're not all working on the exact same thing again. Microsoft is also very married to the idea of
Of a team represents a functional part of the product
So the org structure is the product and it's it doesn't guess what?
No reverb for this but it doesn't have to be that way. There's a little secret tip. I might have a team of
dozen people 15 people and
For this iteration boy, we really need to get graphics performance working, you know
And I'm kind of that's my that's my area of expertise
I kind of become the virtual lead for that part little little the go-to guy
I make sure I get the right people together when we figure it out and we get stuff done and it's fantastic
And that's that's your lead opportunity
And you do enough of those and maybe you're the next guideline for the engineering manager
But if that's the direction you want to go, but we don't need as many
Managers in place to do that stuff. We need there's lots and lots and lots of opportunities for leadership. Mm-hmm
that need to occur and
Yet another tangent before I go back to the other type of manager who's going to have a worry here is that you know
I think it's interesting that people are getting leads are getting value on
Kind of how to lead through change from Brent and I one thing maybe not clear to the listeners
Outside of Microsoft maybe some of those even inside of Microsoft is Brent is a manager of people
I am today at least
Alan me I'm not I don't manage people. Alan is a voider and a voider of a
voider
And I think it's because
But for me, it's not I don't think it's definitely because in this sort of organization
I think I'll probably still be an IC
I could be
I have nothing against management. I could be a manager in some other type of organization, but Microsoft
management
unfortunately generally means
Just having a lot more meetings
So one of the things that I would also say is while Alan isn't a manager and I am
I would say one thing that we have in common is we're both very passionate around
Leadership Alan views his role as being highly more effective in leading others in an IC role. Whereas I view
My ability to apply leadership a lot more effective when I have people underneath me
Yeah, and that's that's totally fine
anyway, so so
Blah blah blah rewindage on top the stack is the other kind of manager and this is the one
That I have a message for so okay. There's engineering managers
And then there's a bunch of ic's and guess what happens?
It's a lot of managers who no longer have manager jobs when you make this sort of move
It's like oh, but uh, but uh, how do you translate that?
I translated equivalently to the last one. All right, maybe boo hoo
The answer there is um, uh, I want to say tough
But that's probably a little bit too harsh buck up buttercup
Yeah, it's it's like being a lead or a manager isn't some special right you've earned
you know you need you
Maybe you're capable of being an engineering manager and there isn't a job opening for you. Mm-hmm
Maybe and babe, but if you're a it's not like just because you're a lead you're incapable of doing that ic role and also
If you are in the ic role and you are and you were a former lead and you're not the one stepping up to be that
Technical lead and and help help that team self organize and form those problems. My question is why were you ever a lead in first place?
So let me carry on from what alan was just saying so he he made a distinction between leaders and managers
Okay, so this I guess I did it indirectly. Yeah in
in
My next set of words for lack of a better word
I want to address the leaders who listen to us when I say leaders
These are people who are focused on doing the right thing for the business and their team
Um to some degree
Ignoring the consequences to themselves. Okay, there are a bunch of leaders leaders out right now
That are listening to us and these are the guys who I think are giving us the feedback that we're adding value to their lives
this change to some degree
Will occur in the next quarter
Okay guys, there's a sense of urgency i'm i'm gonna miss most of the next quarter. Yeah, he's he's hopping the
devons
anyway, so
What I want you guys to think through
now
Is how to be proactive on this when this change occurs?
Your team's going to freak out
Okay
There's two ways of thinking of this problem. Number one. How do I calm them down?
Or number two, which I think is better
How do I get them to understand that all change is an opportunity?
And help them to capture that opportunity?
I think the answer there is in all of our previous podcasts where we talked about this
I mean every everything is in there buried in there. There's so i'll just go very quickly. Okay. All right
because this is um
Talk to the microphone not to me
My team my team is going through this now and so there's a series of conversations that i'm having all across the board. Okay
First and foremost when or if this team this this change hits your team
You need to understand
You will have roughly a week maybe two to act
That is not enough time. Then the zombies come what happens? No
What will will what will end up happening with with ic's?
Those who recognize it's an opportunity and act
will
Increase the probability that they land in the position
That they are looking for
Those who are reeling from the loss of say a command and control structure those waiting for the managers decide their fate
Okay
they will be placed
uh in positions that their management view is
Appropriate based on what their management has visibility to
first thing leads
What you need to do is find a way
to get these the particularly the the ones who are emotional
Is need to listen and get them through that emotional stage as fast as possible one of the messages i've been saying
Hey, I see that you have an impact. May I recommend that you schedule and your um
your cryfest
Two to three months from now because you do not have time for that today
Yeah, that's a good way to put that that's gonna um, that's gonna work out really well
It yeah, it's worked. It's actually worked rather well. There's no crying in engineering
You can cry if you want to I don't recommend that as a strategy because you don't have time for it
The second thing it's my org change. You can cry if you want to wasn't that a song in the 50s?
I think something like that. All right, if
Those who who just don't have the capability of doing that then you do need to just listen
uh empathize with them understand their fears and and and have them feel
As if you got their back the second thing
What I tell people
Is then what you need to do
Is you say I need you to go look at the options. There's a whole bunch of options
Let's let's say like the worst case scenario
You're a test lead who's been doing a pm role
Right those people are heavily at risk
What I say what I tell people look at your available options
And find the things that you would be most passionate about
Start with your passion use it as an opportunity. Oh my gosh. This is something I would love to go do
second
figure out
What you already do well towards that passion
third
Figure out how those two things your passion and what you do. Well will add business value and then most importantly
Usually these messages will come out with the the new leaders that are are leading these new missions
Go proactively have that conversation and let that leader know
What you came to conclusion on your the last three things your passion what you do well
And how you'll use it to add business value
If you do that once this change hits hits you or or if you're a lead and you encourage your team to do the same thing
That will increase the probability that they will land in the team that solves all three of those problems
That is the best advice I can give you right now
It is important that you prepare for that
I'm done. Anything else you want to say we can go to mail back to no. No, we can't I think uh
Rather than force someone to listen to every single one of our podcasts to find the the answers there
I think you know to me the key there. Yep is to the quicker you could understand
why the change is happening and what's going to come out of it and then you can
communicate that and over communicate that and over clarify that to the people on your team the better off you're going to and give them a
Method by which they could learn what they don't know today
Yeah, and
And it's perfectly okay to be uncomfortable. I believe and i've I've shared this quote before from the heffers book
And my slightly paraphrased version which is leadership is disappointing people at a level they can tolerate
Yes, I like that quote. I love that quote. All right, I want to go on to mail bag number two mail bag number two
dun dun dun
So I i'm a little voice in the background number two
Yeah, yeah moving on
So there was a question that that ben asked me as well and I gave him my answer
Are we still on our ben or this ben affleck?
Arben, okay. Good. Yeah, i'm nowhere close cool enough to to get questions from ben affleck. That's for sure
and given
Uh, go on given daredevil. I'm not really certain I would want to
um
All right. Here's a question i'm dropping on you allen. All right, okay
If you were opening a new job description
That tried to attract the right people to the type of organization we are heading to
What would be the key?
Four to five bullets you would be looking for
Consider that you may want different types of people and these bullets should try to attract from all of those types
Yeah, I don't need that many bullets. Okay, I believe in a probably the last one i'll ask
Somewhere down the bullet list is I want people who are passionate about learning
and to me that that
Because again, it's like I want people with five years of swift experience, you know, not going to happen
You know, i'm not going to go out, you know for a brand new language, for example, i'm not going to go out and hire
Um someone with experience in that but people with passion for learning and demonstrated experience in that I want problem solvers
Collaborate people that like working together
So if my bullet points are team player and collaborator
Uh passion for learning
fantastic problem solvers
Um, so i'm gonna call you on this now because sure go ahead everything you've got listed. Mm-hmm is a generalist
So what would be the types of generalizing specialists?
So the last two bullet points
Buddy boy working together. You didn't tell me you didn't tell me those things are critical for me. Okay, if
If I get those people and they're all kobol programmers and you're telling me I got to build a web service i'm screwed
Great, um, so I need some expertise to help lead the team. You didn't tell me what product i'm building yet
It doesn't ah, it does matter because that's where my other two bullet points come from
I have to I have to troll for some expertise in the technology as well or a related technology where I know I can grow and
adapt them
But I gotta have those things those generalist things are the most are critical generalist
attributes now tell me about the product and just for example, let's say i'm gonna sell not shoes like zappos i'm like
Mapos i'm gonna sell maps
How about someone familiar with you know rest api's and you know, I I can
Might even go that specific amigo web development experience or something
Are there are there?
Consider the the world we're heading into
and and consider missing capabilities
That that we don't have in that world as a whole but but specialist type of capabilities
So some of the specialist capabilities we need are data sciencey stuff. Okay as we get a product out brand new product
I may bring them a little bit later. Maybe not. I don't know I need
uh
Architectural people who can design the product and figure out how it's gonna all work together
Versus a bunch of general sticking their stuff together with scotch tape
um, I need some people
Again, i'm gonna need people who are
Technically proficient or i've experienced in the areas of the
Gosh, the technology we're going to build on and maybe i've waited for the architect to be done on there
I think I have some ideas of what we're going to do
most people
Who have done, you know serious web development and web development doesn't mean you hack together some html for your grandma
So people people have done some serious web development
Are have done so in a variety of languages
It's interesting. So so your answer there was remarkably similar to mine
The the first one because you copied
I
Ah, whatever. I have it written down
First off one of the things that I said is that you said data sciencey stuff
And there's a there's a parallel that i've come to realize right now throughout the company. Everyone's trying to hire
data scientists like crazy
And even if they don't know what they are especially if they don't know. Can you spell math hired?
the the
And one of the things that i've had find or had to find myself explaining
Is what exactly a data science is but in a way of a metaphor i'm like if we think of
Data flow or data analytics or data insight
in in
in like a
developing a new product
Okay, I I tell them you should think of a data scientist like a dev architect. Okay, we don't need 20 of those on a team
But there is another role where we do need a bunch of them and those are called data analysts. Uh-huh
Right. So what I think that's and to interrupt
Great insight and a piece that I think
Too many teams at least here have missed. Yes. All right, go on
We do need data science guys
Just like we need dev architects whose role it is to understand the system end to end
And help train up the developers. Mm-hmm. We need data science guys
Who can do the same and help train up the data analysts?
I I totally agree and i'm saying that's one of the things that I know you have farther to go
But one of the things has been pushing my buttons a lot
Um with some teams i've worked with here at microsoft is the sort of over indexing on
Everybody must be deep data scientists and no because so much what we want to know is just data analysis
Business intelligence we need some people who actually get how to derive insights properly
I'm so worried that these half equipped people will use
A little bit of knowledge about you know beige and analysis statistics to make some
Totally screwed up correlations. Mm-hmm and and and dig us a hole. I'm really really worried about that
I want people who know what they're doing to do that
A whole bunch of other people can analyze and generate data and figure stuff out, but I want to I want to
I would prefer
To let the people who actually really know what they're doing make some of those more
And what I would involve choices I hear what you're saying and what I would actually argue is that we need both
No, we need those people that you're afraid of but we need them guided by someone who knows what they're doing
Yes, my word and the worry is that the people who i'm afraid of
Uh will be will not be guided and they'll be the ones that we believe
Yes, and that will absolutely happen
And will insert boom explosion sound effect here
Can you do that later? I don't have one. I gotta find the royalty free sound effect library
The other thing I said
was business innovators
people who who
understand
The possible markets and and can come up with new ideas for us to explore
We've talked before about um, we will have needs for doing fighting
But what we also need is a good set of people
to to really help direct
The or constrain what we flight great. I'm on sqlbi
Uh, i'm i'm on the business intelligence team
Right someone comes down and says hey what we really should do is flight an experiment to help cat groomers
Why?
Right something someone that can that can look at the market as a whole
generate ideas around how we could
Do leapfrog innovation?
One of the challenges with with data science
On its own data science is very good at looking at the data we have right now and helping us to evolve
But to get those really breakthrough things you still need people
the the
model
Model building this is the idea of generating
Data flows to to help decision making model building is really a strong combination of art and science
Which by the way is something test is very good at this is how we've done a lot of our test automation in the past
What do we think is the most important?
Um, there's an art around communication. I think we're well built for this the last one. I think is
Similar to what you were talking about with the system architectures or the system architects. Okay
I actually view it as what we need is system thinkers
yeah, I believe and
We need them to have the ability to to capture what they observe in terms of the system
And automate improvements around it
I think actually you alan when you say you're a specialist in process
Actually, I think you're one of these guys that i'm talking about
I stunned alan
I i'm processing go on brent. So for for an example, uh, I had a conversation just this last week around
Alerting and monitoring right everyone knows we need alerting to monitoring this service. Okay
But what no one knows is what the value is of it
and
I explained
Let's say two years from now the value of this alerting to monitoring two years from now is that
When a dev does a check-in
Because we go straight to prod and in that future world. They do a check-in five minutes later. It's in prod
five minutes later
We have a system that that detected that they have a a
That that check-in that exact check-in has a negative customer impact and there's a uh mail notification. It is sent to that
Developer within five minutes of of that check-in saying you have an impact. Here's the log traces
Investigate what the right option is to do i'm disappointed. We have to use email for that but
But i'll live so I want a couple things
I don't know what it is, but I want to be less than five minutes and you didn't mention it
But is it automatic? I don't want just a notification. I want it chucked out of there
But understand what I did there
Right first off to me. That's maybe i'm just uh in a different
World but to me that's just bread and butter. Of course, that's what you want to do
No, but that's because you're a systems thinker and it's not bread and butter others don't think this way screw all you guys
The the what we did there is we said
How does the system work and what is the value we're trying to capture from it?
Now let's go automate and capture that value
Yeah, and I I guess I can see that oftentimes the solution is let's go automate. We'll figure out what the value is later
I
You're you're not saying that you support that model. No, no, okay. No
um
All if we want to write some automation
the
And then there's one last
We have one last question. Do we have time for it? I think so. You want to move on to it?
Are you okay? Are you done? Yeah about that? So if we have time there's an there's an idea that i'm going to do that
I'll at all. All right, we we'll see we'll see. So, um
Another one from my personal melbec. I someone emailed me and said hey alan
Our team's doing kind of agile stuff and i'm not sure how do we measure accountability on an agile team?
So brent i'm gonna ask you so
And I had an answer and i'm not going to give you my answer yet, but i'm gonna ask you how do you?
What what does the accountability model look like on an agile team?
Did you get a sense of what they want that team to be accountable for in the past? The team has been accountable for?
uh
Hold you know meeting their estimates
Uh getting you know, do anything's out on time and of of some level of quality is this coming from our uh,
now famous
Your uh
Manager friend the the dev manager friend who has come up before in this podcast. Yes. So this is from his manager actually. Okay
so
in an agile team
The only thing of value to hold the agile team accountable for
Is the production of value?
In other words, a lot of teams are like hey, I want this task done on this time
So you're saying the team so I get that so then is the team have a group accountability or is there individual accountability as well?
uh
So we've talked about and it's gotten to a point where i'm starting to think
How to rephrase this the term self-organizing self-organizing. Okay
Unfortunately, that's starting to become cliche and inactionable
right what what I
Yes, what I have found is to be the most successful thing to do is is to lay down to the team
guys
You guys need to be accountable
for
This value statement. Let's say
I don't I don't care
But I need the architecture of this system to be hand to be able to handle another 20 percent
throughput in the next month because
we know
uh
Load is going to increase in that time frame. Okay
That's the value proposition. I want this thing to be able to handle another 20 percent of load in that time frame
And then you hold that team accountable
Let them figure out how they're going to achieve that goal
if you if you do personal accountability
um
then
You'll have individuals who are
achieving what they got done
And other individuals achieving what they got done, but when we try to integrate that
the value proposition that you're going for
um
Won't be delivered
What you want them to go after what?
What is the value we want to capture?
the
You don't look happy with no, no go on go on i'll have my turn. Okay
um
There is a timeliness factor to that. Of course, you can't you can't allow them to to
Take that one 20 percent goal and take six months to do it
um
but if it if it takes
two days longer
To to solidify then in my humble opinion, that's just fine
Yeah, to me that answer is I get where you're coming from and I get all that I think that
uh
Probably not the answer they were looking for
meaning that
uh
If you could say if everyone's accountable then no one's accountable so team accountability is tough
So my answer was and i'll stand i'll stand by this. I believe this especially in the context of our discussion before
is that
Yes, everything brent said is true. You want to hold the team?
The team i'm you're accountable for you know getting this is for value stream
We expected this to get done this iteration
We affected these items to get done off the con bond board in this amount of time. Um, you know
We're gonna kind of hold the team accountable
But if they don't make it it's not like we're gonna penalize the team put them in the penalty box
But as far as individual accountability
I put that on the manager of the team a man
I don't care if it's if you have four people working for you or 16 as a manager of a team of people
I know
Who has pulled their weight who has not pulled their weight and had a bad iteration?
Who is kicking butt for each iteration that may change as you know for iteration iteration?
But I know if if as a manager, I don't know how everybody in my team has performed over the last iteration or you know
These items on the con bond board. I'm a crummy manager
I need to know that stuff
I need to know how my team's doing and sometimes they're going to sandbag me or whatever and as far as estimates go
And I brought these up just in the context of the conversation. I said if someone gets their estimates wrong, you know
That's a starting point for a conversation
Um, if you start holding and again, if you start holding people accountable for their estimates
They're going to start mucking with the values until they get them, right?
But let you want to see a couple things with estimates you want to see some improvement over time
People should get better at them over time
Um, and if somebody's way off you have a conversation about it
It may be
That their estimate was way off because they screwed off and watched world cup soccer all day instead of doing their job
Or it may be that once they actually looked into the work item
There was a whole can of worms there that no one could have anticipated, you know
two completely different ways to get to the same
uh the same end so I want to use a
really invalid estimate or a
Estimate that was missed by a lot as a starting point for a conversation
Not as a single point of accountability
And then there's code quality and I want to make sure what you delivered was what you know
Was it as good as our standards or better?
Um collaboration I look for like for team members who are helping each other out
I want people doing code reviews for each other. I want people, you know, helping each other out in examples of that and as a manager
I have those things
So all those things I want to hold individuals accountable and make sure I know that they're doing what they're supposed to be doing
But i'm not going to look at a single point like did you get done when you said you would check?
No, no check plus minus. That's just stupid. There's a couple of things
that uh
In terms of what you said that in the spirit of it. I agree in terms of how you would deploy it. I don't
The the first thing like the question you asked me is how do you hold a team accountable?
Honestly, my answer is is you don't what you do is you figure out
How to get the team to hold themselves accountable?
Any process that says it's my job to hold others accountable. Okay
That's reinvigorating the command and control structure. I'm not saying you you completely misunderstood. No, no, let me finish
Okay, I didn't I did not completely misunderstood
Probably it so when I spin and it goes to the first topic
How do how do you help leads to scale in this world where there's going to be 10 to 15?
Plus reports that they have
Right. Um, you act like it's a big deal. It's whatever
If honestly says the guy who runs screaming every time he's in a manager role
If you're not capable of running it if you don't you can't see how easy not easy
But if you can't see the value and having a team that size and you're afraid of it
Guess what? Don't be a manager get the hell out my my strategy when it comes to my team
is
Look what we need to do is deliver the most business value as fast as possible learning is important. Yay
um
and
My accountability that that I expect of that team
Is to constantly accelerate that goal
How do how do we provide the most?
So let's step no, no, no, let's step out of the agile stream stuff for a minute
There is also the people management part and you have to know
You want to take your top performers and celebrate those victors?
Everyone goes what these guys are doing is great do more of this stuff
Then you want to be able to non-publicly dive in on those lower performers for whatever reason and give them the coaching they need
There's that's the part i'm talking about here not about the value stream, but that's not an accountability. That's an identification program that well, it's both
It I can see why you would say that like how do I identify those folks?
How do I understand what they're doing wrong?
What they're doing wrong is more often than not a behavior thing and trying to deliver some stupid metric that says well
You didn't do 10 widgets
I don't want it to be a metric. I want to be a purely a management activity to know who on the team is
Doing you know really well and and celebrating that public least people can noted you more that and knowing where I need to do coaching
That is you do that through personal and hubeid interaction not through metrics
You do and and if you if you do it, right you don't
You as a manager don't need to be the one doing it
So I talked last or you well you as a manager should be observing it. Yes. Yeah, absolutely
And you need to know the point is you need to know what's going on facilitating
The the breakthrough on these type of bottlenecks
So the the person that you're identifying in my way of thinking they're a bottleneck to the team process
And it's my job to to help identify those bottlenecks and remove them from the system using
Whatever tool in my tool bag and I am willing to use any tool in my tool bag including you're no longer part of my system
But one of the better ways of of doing this is
Make it transparent
So I talked about value stream maps if we do a value stream map on something that's that last time
If we do a value stream map on something critical for the the team's success the the the value the team's trying to capture
And we realize hey, there was a two two week delay because this guy was goofing off
right
It doesn't stand too long when when you have that discussion as a team and that guy and everyone else on the team
Is staring at the two-week delay?
Yes, but there's it may just be there a goofing off. They could have had family problems
They could have been you know a whole bunch that could be on the wrong job
When I take the cobalt programmer and put him on the rest service and he goes blah blah blah blah blah blah
I you know, I did a bad job as a manager. I didn't go fix that
But then that's still not the issue of how do I hold individuals accountable? That's how do I hold myself accountable?
Sure
All right, brent you're just
All right, we better stop
More crap. There's one other thing that I want to there's always one other thing. Okay
so you and I have talked many a time about the need for knowledge sharing and and
increasing the rate in which people learn
What they don't know they don't know
Okay, and we've talked about one of our competitors who do status reports every friday and I have actually
searchable
So the whole company yes, and I have been talking to others around this for a long time and it wasn't until yesterday with I realized
Holy crap. What am I waiting for?
So I am going to do
A new thing on my team. I call them individual retrospective reports
very soon
Me and my team what we will be doing is we will be posting to a public yammer group
um
These individual retrospective reports and the intent of the report is not a status report
The intent of the report is to communicate publicly on an individual basis. What are they doing?
Where they can use help from others and where they think they might be able to help others?
and the entire intent of this thing is to
Increase the odds that someone who can help us and someone we can help can find us
And we're gonna I'm gonna do a competition on my team to see who can come up with the right format
that can keep that report down to 15 minutes and
Attract the most of that communication. All right
Well, we'll visit that more in the future when we have time to talk about it
I would love to hear your initial thought though. Well, no time so
That'll be in episode eight put it on the backlog there bj. All right then. All right, everybody. I'm alan
I'm brent and we'll see you later. Thank you. Bye